portsnap_override(8) --  Run portsnap from a shell script (no tty).
==================================================

## SYNOPSIS

Temporarily circumvent the tty check within `portsnap fetch` subcommand.

    portsnap override on
    portsnap override off

## DESCRIPTION

Prevent `portsnap fetch` from failing when run from a shell script (no tty). Future
versions of _portsnap_ may break this script and render it useless.

To use, just add the following "guard" lines before & after portsnap:

    portsnap_override "on";
    portsnap "fetch";
    portsnap_override "off";

`portsnap_override on` will perform the following actions:

    # Rewrite portsnap's "fetch" argument "cron".
    mv "portsnap" --> "portsnap-interactive"
    ln -s "portsnap-non-interactive" --> "portsnap"
    # Override the "jot" command to return a random delay of 0 seconds.
    mv "jot" --> "jot-disabled"
    ln -s "jot_0" --> "jot"

`portsnap_override off` just returns the _portsnap_ and _jot_ programs back to
normal.

WARNING !!! You must remove this override straight afterwards!

Do not cancel, kill or abort parent script or process (_kill_ / CTRL\^C)
whilst portsnap is running. That will leave two important FreeBSD programs
temporarily disabled: _/usr/bin/jot_, and _/usr/sbin/portsnap_. The
situation can be rectified by issuing $ portsnap_override "off" manually.

Tested with: $FreeBSD: release/9.1.0/usr.sbin/portsnap/portsnap/portsnap.sh 235310 2012-05-12 00:49:14Z eadler $

## FILES

    /usr/sbin/portsnap_override
    /usr/sbin/portsnap_non_interactive
    /usr/bin/jot_0

## BUGS

Can be reported at <http://dreamcat4.github.io/finch/support>.

## SEE ALSO
    portsnap(8), jot(1)

## Created by

Dreamcat4, dreamcat4@gmail.com (C 2014). FreeBSD License.

